Update Article styling criteria and split it into formatting and writing style rules (#3734)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Article_styling_criteria/en.md

---
tags:
  - wiki standards
---

# Article styling criteria

*For news posts, see: [News Styling Criteria](/wiki/News_Styling_Criteria)*

> The Article Styling Criteria (ASC) serve as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The article styling criteria (ASC) serve as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.
```

> The article styling criteria (ASC) serves as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Reviewer 2: why?

> The article styling criteria (ASC) serves as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Author: Is there a particular reason to change it to your suggestion? It doesn't sound right to me.
Same thing with your other suggestion.

> The article styling criteria (ASC) serves as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Reviewer 3: I think he's interpreting the phrase `article styling criteria` as singular, but I think that is incorrect — the singular form of `criteria` is `criterion`, so this phrase should be followed by the plural form of `serve`, ie `serves`, as written before the suggestion.

> The article styling criteria (ASC) serves as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Reviewer 3: I'm stupid and got this reversed, @TPGPL is right, `criteria` is plural so we should use `serves` (plural form of serve)

> The article styling criteria (ASC) serves as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Author: I'm confused now, I think you wrote it a bit backwards. TPGPL was suggesting to change it to `serve`.

> The article styling criteria (ASC) serves as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Reviewer 4: yeah, `serve` is the correct form, as `criteria` is plural

> The article styling criteria (ASC) serves as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Reviewer 3: apologies, you're right, I was confused in more ways than one. I'm clearly not helping too much here so I'll keep quiet.

> The article styling criteria (ASC) serves as the osu! wiki's enforced styling standards to keep consistency in clarity, formatting, and layout in all articles.

Reviewer 5: it's probably less confusing to treat this as plural, I think that was why we changed caps in the first place. there's nothing that makes *this document* special besides being a list of the criteria. when you absolutely need to refer to the article itself u could write `the [ASC]() article`

alternatively, if you think it's better to refer to the whole thing in singular, we could just change the name again.

> All articles must have having proper grammar, correct spelling, and correct information.

Reviewer: This seems a bit above the line. I like the old lenient wording better, as we do make mistakes and wikis are always WIP (i.e. people are always editing them).

> All articles should aim at having proper grammar, correct spelling, and correct information.

```suggestion
All articles should aim at having proper grammar, correct spelling, and correct information.
```

Or if not:

```suggestion
All articles must have proper grammar, correct spelling, and correct information.
```

> All articles should aim at having proper grammar, correct spelling, and correct information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All articles must have proper grammar, correct spelling, and correct information.
```
"Should aim" kinda downplays the point of the ASC

> To suggest changes regarding the Article Styling Criteria, [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues/new "GitHub").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To suggest changes regarding the article styling criteria, [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues/new "GitHub").
```

> If you have any suggestions regarding the article styling criteria, [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues/new).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To suggest changes regarding the article styling criteria, [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues/new "GitHub").
```
Prob don't want to break the ASC rules within the ASC. Dismiss this suggestion if this was an intentional use of informal register.

## Standards

> *Notice: [RFC 2119](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119) is used to describe requirement levels.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Notice: [RFC 2119](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119 "IETF Tools") is used to describe requirement levels.*
```

> The Article Styling Criteria are split up into two articles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The article styling criteria are split up into two articles:
```

> - [Formatting](Formatting) - includes Markdown and other formatting rules

Reviewer 2: May be better to use a colon or just no punctuation there at all? This goes for line 23 as well

> - [Writting](Writting) - includes writing practices and other grammar rules

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [Writing](Writing) - includes writing practices and other grammar rules
```
fix typo
